In this video, we're gonna pop down some meatballs and start blocking out the shape of our cat.
Solving the challenge and that challenge is to block out your animal, using medal's block out the broad
shape of your animal.
So that'll be easier for us to start sculpting it, which will probably be doing in the next video before
this video.
Just get the rough shape of your animal.
OK.
Pause video.
Take on that challenge.
I'll see you back in when you done.
Right for me and hop inside view shift a meatball capsule.
Now, I think that side on.
Yes, it is.
I'm going to rotate on the Z axis by 90.
Perfect.
Back to my side view.
G to move.
Get into position.
Scale it down a little bit.
S to scale on the Y axis.
Stretch it along.
S just rough and ready for now.
Just getting the general shape.
Okay.
Now what are we gonna do.
A little bit of a neck shift d move s to scale cheetah move into place.
If at any point you want to see all what's going on behind here.
The way I like to do is just quickly alter Z or Z or you can hop into wireframe mode but find that a
little bit trickier to see.
Okay, I'm going to shift D move down to the back and make a bit of a tail now.
Going to make the tail straight to start off with and I'll pose it into position a little bit later
on.
Shift data move again.
Shift data move again, doesn't matter if it's a bit lumpy, will smooth those out when we start to
do our sculpting, that's a round about the length.
Might be a little bit too long, but that's probably going to be at length for after.
Okay.
Shift a metal bowl bowl for the head G to move into position.
That's not quite the right size.
Scale it down a little bit g to move.
S to scale.
G to move.
That's feeling like it's mursalin the right spot.
Z scroll in a little bit there.
Move it around.
Was accidentally did a mega scale scale scale scale scale ild z to get out of X-ray mode.
Okay I'm going to find one of these cylinders or just borrow one of the tiles.
Shift D move that down.
We'll start the leg are to rotate G to move up.
Now legs are interesting on cats.
I'm just going to bring up my reference images here, see if I can find an interesting leg.
So we often think of legs on animals as being just sticks that come out of the body.
But if you look closely and I'm not a cat person, I don't own a cat.
So I don't know as well as you cat folks out there.
But you can see that right up here is where a shoulder is happening, even all the way up top there,
the shoulder blade.
And we've got this straightness and then that straightness as well.
And you can see on the back all of this is leg in here.
It's all big, chunky leg.
So I want to make sure we represent that.
We've been putting fur over the top of it.
So it's not like we need to get all the definition, but we need to get a little bit of that lumpiness
in here at this point.
So let me see.
I make this little bit bigger and of course, rotate Araz right in the middle.
That's not the spot we wanted.
So hop into the front view G to move it to the side, probably s X to scale it a little bit thinner
for now because I'm making my catch, not symmetrical in terms of the legs.
I'm not going to have mirror ing on sudsing me a little bit of a pain to create.
This cat has a little bit different.
I might do some mirroring of the head separately, but for now, in a working away, that's pretty much
not symmetrical.
Just what feels good in terms of creating this cat.
Okay, Shift D will make the other part of the leg are to rotate G to move down.
It's hidden in the grass, which is great.
I'm saying and one of my previous videos that that is not a problem.
We will allow that to be the case.
You know what I will do?
I click on Ambuhl, find my minable settings and just change the resolution to, I think, point one.
That way we're gonna get a lot more detail, yet more detail, particularly when we convert this into
mesh and we're ready to start sculpting it.
So this leg, it's in the grass.
My reference image doesn't help me a lot.
So let's have a look and see what it should be doing.
Probably this one over here is a good indication.
We need that back joint and then down, then a little bit of a foot.
Look on the legging question.
Thinning, thinning, r2 rotate.
Okay G and then shift day.
We'll do a little bit of a foot down here, although it probably won't be seeing it.
OK.
How's that looking?
It's looking okay.
Still a lot of shaping we'll do when we get to the sculpting stage.
But it's okay for now.
The other leg wing.
Yes.
Add a little bit because I can't see it from this reference image.
Gee, açaí shift d moving around are to rotate to move back a little bit.
Scale it down a little bit and then I'm gonna go into my front view sheet to move a little bit of a
rotate to the side.
Okay, so now that I've walked through literally the process, you can see how I'm going about doing
this.
I'll speed up the video so you don't have to watch me put down every single limb.
Okay.
This is what I've ended up with, just duplicating, moving, duplicating, moving.
It's pretty straightforward stuff that we've done a bunch of.
I've ended up with something that's not exactly in line with the cat image.
I've been using my other reference images as well just to get a movie inspiration.
How would things look?
Trying to pose it in a way that feels good for me in terms of what I'd like to do with this cat.
Haven't put any is yet.
We'll do that later on when we're sculpting and putting more attention into the head.
And you can see that I've just gone and shrunk in my inner let's see, my inner meatball.
That really made a difference when I did that just to get the shape of it.
So some of these shoulders started to show through a little bit and we can pay a bit more attention
to that when we're doing our sculpting.
Just a quick note.
There are other ways that we could have gone about creating this pose.
I've gone with a little bit of a tricky appose if I just do this pose at the back, you know, the side
the front view over here, just the cat sitting there doing not much.
Then I could have mirrored and that would have sped up the workflow a lot.
So if you want to mirror yours, by all means, go ahead and do that, particularly when we get to the
sculpting stage.
And we can also put bones within our object and we can use that to pose.
So we put the cat in the equivalent of a cat t pose and then use the bone so that we can move the legs
into shape.
But I wanted to practice on my practice, my art medal placement and my sculpting skills.
So I've decided to go with a non symmetrical image for the cat and just start with that from the get
go.
But just wanted to point that out that you could totally put bones and go with mirroring and go as symmetry
that will save time.
It is my particular preference in this instance that I wanted to model it like this right from the start.
Also to bear in mind I'm going to be putting grass over the whole bottom part of my cat.
So a lot of the details don't.
Down the bottom don't matter so much for me.
So I'll be skipping over those a lot and not worrying about the detail.
And also going to be covering up my cat with hair, obviously with fur.
And that means that a lot of the detail in here we don't need as well.
So that paws in particular are not going to be putting a lot of love into.
But in the next video, we'll start doing some sculpting and add a little bit more shape to our cat.